there are encouraging and strong signals
tonight that the temperary ceasefire
agreement between Israel and Hamas due
to end at midnight tomorrow could be
extended now the deal so far has led to
hostages being freed that were seized by
Hamas which is designated as a terrorist
organization by the UK government in
exchange for Palestinian prisoners held
in Israeli jails and crucially an influx
of much needed Aid into Gaza well so far
over three nights 40 Israeli hostages
have returned home with these 14
released this evening and another group
expected to be freed sometime tomorrow a
number of other hostages from Thailand
Russia and the Philippines have also
been released as part of separate
negotiations in return 117 Palestinian
prisoners have been freed to 39 today
well all
has the very
latest rejoicing in Israel after the
darkness of recent
weeks the latest group of hostages freed
from Gaza waved to supporters as they
are welcomed
home both Israel and Hamas are signaling
their deal could be extended to free
more of those being
held for reun like this after 50 days
apart young hostages finally
home Emily hand embraced by her father
Thomas who at one stage believed her
dead now she is free and he says doing
well yeah yesterday we finally got Emily
back from the hands of the G and
terrorists uh she lost a lot of
weight um from her face and
body uh but generally doing better than
we
expected Emily's Family say they will
throw her the biggest birthday party
ever she turned nine in
captivity abigil Idan has also been
freed Joe Biden had been pushing for her
release the four-year-old is American
Israeli last killed both of her
parents also back in Israel yafa Adar
since coming home she has learned her
grandson is a captive this was the
85-year-old being driven Away by Hamas a
survivor of the Holocaust taken
hostage her granddaughter says she is
back from Hell strong as ever her spirit
is still there and she's still looking
all of us in the eyes and she's still
showing us that uh she wouldn't let them
break her and uh and she's telling us
how she thought about us and about the
great grandkids at night when it became
tough and she she's saying uh she could
hear their voices calling her and that
it she said okay I have to I have to
push through I have to do whatever it
takes to to be
back also so coming home Palestinians in
their teens freed from Israeli jails
many children are detained by Israel the
occupying power on charges of throwing
stones in the West Bank they got a
hero's welcome the green flag of Hamas
now Flying
high in Gaza the truce is holding among
Ong the ruins more than 14,000
Palestinians have been killed according
to the Hamas Ron Health
Ministry many in the International
Community fear what's to come if
Israel's bombardment resumes orar and
BBC News Tel
Aviv Let's cross to Lucy Williamson who
is in East Jerusalem for us tonight Lucy
um there's the possibility that more
Palestinians could be released beyond
the end of the current deal if there is
an
extension yes and I think that will come
as welcome news to many people in the
West Bank and in East Jerusalem not just
because it means more Palestinian
prisoners released from Israeli jails
but also because of the sense of kinship
that many people feel with people in
Gaza and concern for the situation there
Israel has put restrictions on many of
the families who are receiving people
back from jail saying they shouldn't
hold celebrations they shouldn't talk to
the media but there's very little mood
for big celebrations as it is because
people have told us they do feel anger
and sadness at the situation in Gaza we
spoke to one mother in the West Bank
this week who was waiting for her son to
come off one of these uh coaches from
from the Israeli jail and she said she
felt conflicted about what Hamas had
done on the one hand she said it brought
her son back to her on the other hand it
caused the devastation in
Gaza indeed okay Lucy thank you Lucy
Williamson there uh in East Jerusalem
let's get a final word from all who's
here we heard Lucy there say of course
Palestinians on the West Bank uh and in
Gaza they're going to want an extension
and President Biden has made it clear
this evening that he would like to see
more hostages released and an extension
of the ceasefire what do you believe the
next few days could hold in relation to
all of this I think for the moment live
it suits everyone to extend there's
nothing firm there's nothing official
but we've had a series of statements
today that are all indicating the same
thing first of all Hamas said it would
like to extend the ceasefire and there
was a suggestion from a Palestinian
official who spoke to the BBC that this
could be an extension of 2 to 4 days
allowing for the release of another 20
to 40 Israeli hostages then we had
President Biden saying we would like to
see the deal extended this evening we
had the Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin
Netanyahu referring to the fact that the
deal allows for an extension and using a
phrase which translated means that would
be a blessed thing so the signals are
that this is something that all the
sides want we have to get through
tomorrow first and the release of the
final batch under the existing deal so
we're expecting another 13 or 14
tomorrow important to say c that
Netanyahu has also said after any deal
we will go back to war with full force
he's under pressure from the military
here not to let this pause drag on too
long they want to get back to the
battlefield the families of the hostages
want peace as long as possible indeed